SAML SSO with Azure AD guide (#654)
hashicorp/terraform-website: content/source/docs/enterprise/saml/identity-provider-configuration-aad.html.md

---
layout: enterprise2
page_title: "SAML Azure Active Directory Identity Provider Configuration - Terraform Enterprise"
sidebar_current: "docs-enterprise2-private-saml-identity-provider-configuration-aad"
---

# AAD Configuration

Follow these steps to configure Azure Active Directory (AAD) as the identity provider (IdP) for Private Terraform Enterprise (PTFE).

> This guide assumes you have an appropriate licensing agreement for Azure Active Directory that supports non-gallery appplication single sign-on.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-> **Note:** This guide assumes you have an appropriate licensing agreement for Azure Active Directory that supports non-gallery application single sign-on.
```

## Configure a New AAD Non-Gallery Application

> 1. In the Azure portal, navigate to Azure Active Directy > Enterprise Applications and select Add an Application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In the Azure portal, navigate to "Azure Active Directory" > "Enterprise Applications" and select "Add an Application".
```

  ![Screenshot: AAD's "Add Application" page](./images/sso-aad-saml-add-application.png)

> 2. Select Non-gallery application. Provide a name for the application and click Add.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Select "Non-gallery application". Provide a name for the application and click "Add".
```

  ![Screenshot: AAD's dialog for beginning a new application](./images/sso-aad-saml-new-application-form)

> 3. AAD should automatically redirect to your new application settings, navigate to Single sign-on and select SAML

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. AAD should automatically redirect to your new application settings. Navigate to "Single sign-on" and select "SAML".
```

  ![Screenshot: the first page of AAD's new app configuration workflow, called "General Settings"](./images/sso-aad-saml-sso-method.png)

> 4. Select the pencil within the Basic SAML Configuration and configure the following settings with the specified values:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Select the pencil within the Basic SAML Configuration and configure these settings:
```

    - **Identifier (Entity ID):** `https://<TFE HOSTNAME>/users/saml/metadata` (listed as "Metadata (audience) URL" in TFE's SAML settings).
    - **Reply URL (Assertion Consumer Service URL):** `https://<TFE HOSTNAME>/users/saml/auth` (listed as "ACS consumer (recipient) URL" in TFE's SAML settings).
    - **Sign on URL:** `https://<TFE HOSTNAME>/`
    ![Screenshot: The "Configure SAML" page of ADD's new app workflow, with the specified settings entered.](./images/sso-aad-saml-configuration.png)

> 5. In the User Attributes & Claims section select the pencil and configure the following items:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. In the "User Attributes & Claims" section, select the pencil and configure the following items:
```

    - **Name Identifier value:** `user.mail`
    ![Screenshot: Modifying the name identifier value.](./images/sso-aad-saml-user-claims-name-identifier.png)

> 6. Still in the "User Attributes & Claims" page, configure a user claim to map which team a user belongs to. Under "Manage user claims" page, configure the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Still in the "User Attributes & Claims" page, under "Manage user claims", configure a user claim to map the team a user belongs to:
```

    - **Name:** `MemberOf` (This is the default name for TFE's group [attribute][./attributes.html]; the name of this attribute can be changed in [TFE's SAML settings](./configuration.html) if necessary.)
    - **Source attribute:** (drop-down): user.assignedroles (Custom roles will be created in Azure Active Directory that will be used to map users and groups to TFE teams.)
    ![Screenshot: Add MemberOf claim](./images/sso-aad-saml-user-claims-memberof.png)
7. Under the "SAML Signing Certificate" header, download the signing certificate in base64 format
    ![Screenshot: Download the SAML signing certificate](./images/sso-aad-saml-signing-certificate.png)

> 8. Still in the "Single Sign On Configuration" page, under the "Set up <AAD App Name>", copy the following urls that we will enter in our TFE configuration to link TFE to AAD:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
8. Still in the "Single Sign On Configuration" page, under "Set up <AAD App Name>", copy the following URLs that will be provided to TFE to link TFE to AAD:
```
"Still" caught me off guard here, because last I checked we were somewhere else (User Attributes & Claims). Can you maybe clarify this language a bit?

Author: Tried to clarify this by referring to the header we should be looking at on the page. The page is the Single Sign On Config page however it may not be clear to users as they will just see the headers and different sections

    - **Login URL:**
    - **Logout URL:**
    ![Screenshot: Azure Login/Logout URLs](./images/sso-aad-saml-urls.png)

> 9. Navigate to `https://<TFE_HOSTNAME>/app/admin/saml` and configure the following:

Author: Sure, added PTFE admin screen. Agree that it makes it easier to follow.

    - **Enable SAML single sign-on** (check box): enabled.
    - **Single Sign-On URL:** Enter the login url from step 8.
    - **Single Log-out URL:** Enter the logout url from step 8.
    - **IDP Certificate:** Enter the contents of the PEM (Based64) encoded X.509 certificate captured in step 7.

## Configure Custom Roles for Team Membership Mapping

1. Create teams in TFE as outlined in [TFE Team Membership](./team-membership.html)

> 2. Return to the Azure Portal, navigate to "App Registration" page, and search for the application you created for TFE. Select your app and select "Manifest".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Return to the Azure Portal, navigate to the "App Registration" page, and search for the application you created for TFE. Select your app and select "Manifest".
```

    ![Screenshot: AAD App Registration](./images/sso-aad-saml-app-registration.png)
3. In the manifest editor, locate the "appRoles" block. This is where you will add additional roles that map users and groups to teams in TFE.
    ![Screenshot: Manifest Editor](./images/sso-aad-saml-manifest-approles.png)

> 4. The "appRoles" block may contain roles automatically generated by AAD. New roles should be added after the system roles and must contain a unique GUID value for the ID value of the new role. You can use a tool such as [GUID Generator](https://www.guidgenerator.com). Click save to add role.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. The "appRoles" block may contain roles automatically generated by AAD. New roles should be added after the system roles and must contain a unique GUID value for the ID value of the new role. You can use a tool such as [GUID Generator](https://www.guidgenerator.com) to create these GUIDs. Click "Save" to add the role.
```

Should this be "add the role" or "add the roles"? I wasn't sure.

Author: It could be roles if they add multiple roles or it could be role if they just add one.

    Example role configuration that creates a new role name Dev:

>     ```{

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ```json
    {
```

    "allowedMemberTypes": [
        "User"
    ],
    "displayName": "Dev",
    "id": "d1c2ade8-98f8-45fd-aa4a-6d06b947c66f",
    "isEnabled": true,
    "description": "Dev Team",
    "value": "Dev"

>     }```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    }
```
```

    ![Screenshot: New role in Manifest Editor](./images/sso-aad-saml-manifest-devapprole.png)

> 5. Back in your application properties, under "Manage" heading, select "Users and Groups". This is where you will enable access to TFE by adding either users or groups to your application. During the process of adding users or groups you will select a role to be assigned to the user or group. Select the role that matches the user or groups TFE team.

Reviewer: This line is a little confusing - how does the user get back to their application properties? What's meant by "Select the role that matches the user or groups TFE team"?

Reviewer 2: Hmm, should they use the breadcrumb nav at the top? If so, I'd suggest something like, uh...

```suggestion
5. Use the breadcrumb navigation to return to your application's settings. In the left sidebar, under the "Manage" heading, select "Users and Groups". This is where you will enable access to TFE by adding either users or groups to your application. During the process of adding users or groups you will select a role to be assigned to the user or group. Select the role that matches the user or groups TFE team.
```

But I, too, could use a little more clarity about how you select users and groups and how you assign roles.

    ![Screenshot: Role Assignment](./images/sso-aad-saml-role-assignment.png)

> 6. Once users have been added they can begin logging into TFE with their AAD username and password.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Once users have been added, the initial configuration is complete, and they can begin logging into TFE with their AAD username and password.
```

---
layout: enterprise2
page_title: "SAML Azure Active Directory Identity Provider Configuration - Terraform Enterprise"
sidebar_current: "docs-enterprise2-private-saml-identity-provider-configuration-aad"
---

# AAD Configuration

Follow these steps to configure Azure Active Directory (AAD) as the identity provider (IdP) for Private Terraform Enterprise (PTFE).

-> **Note:** This guide assumes you have an appropriate licensing agreement for Azure Active Directory that supports non-gallery application single sign-on.

## Configure a New AAD Non-Gallery Application

1. In the Azure portal, navigate to "Azure Active Directory" > "Enterprise Applications" and select "Add an Application".
  ![Screenshot: AAD's "Add Application" page](./images/sso-aad-saml-add-application.png)
2. Select "Non-gallery application". Provide a name for the application and click "Add".
  ![Screenshot: AAD's dialog for beginning a new application](./images/sso-aad-saml-new-application-form)

> 3. AAD should automatically redirect to your new application settings. Navigate to "Single sign-on" and select "SAML".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. AAD will automatically redirect to your new application settings. Navigate to "Single sign-on" and select "SAML".
```
